                         atmosphere
            Article
            Identification of an Unknown Stationary Emission Source in
            UrbanGeometryUsingBayesianInference
            Panagiotis Gkirmpas1 ,GeorgeTsegas1,GiannisIoannidis2,ChristosVlachokostas1
            andNicolasMoussiopoulos3,*
                                                        1   Sustainability Engineering Laboratory, Aristotle University, GR-54124 Thessaloniki, Greece;
                                                            pgkirmpas@meng.auth.gr(P.G.); gtsegas@auth.gr (G.T.); vlahoco@auth.gr (C.V.)
                                                        2   Laboratory of Applied Thermodynamics, Aristotle University, GR-54124 Thessaloniki, Greece;
                                                            giannisi@auth.gr
                                                        3   MainCampus,AristotleUniversity,GR-54124Thessaloniki,Greece
                                                        *   Correspondence: moussio@auth.gr
                                                        Abstract: Estimating the parameters of an unidentified toxic pollutant source is crucial for public
                                                        safety, especially in densely populated urban areas. Implementing source term estimation methods
                                                        in real-world urban environments is challenging due to complex phenomena and the absence of
                                                        concentration observational data. This work combines a computational fluid dynamics numerical
                                                        simulation with the Metropolis¬±Hastings MCMC algorithm to identify the location and quantify the
                                                        release rate of an unknown source within the geometry of Augsburg city center. To address the lack
                                                        of concentration measurements, synthetic observations are generated by a forward dispersion model.
                                                        Themethodologyistestedusingthese datasets, both as directly calculated by the forward model
                                                        andwithaddedGaussiannoiseunderdifferentsourcereleaseandwindflowscenarios. Theresults
                                                        indicate that in most cases, both the source location and the release rate are estimated accurately.
                                                        Althoughahigherperformanceisachievedusingsyntheticdatasetswithoutadditionalnoise,high
                                                        accuracy predictions are also obtained in many applications of noisy measurement datasets. In
                                                        general, the outcomesdemonstratethatthepresentedmethodologycanbeausefultoolforestimating
                                                        unknownsourceparametersinreal-worldurbanapplications.
            Citation: Gkirmpas, P.; Tsegas, G.;         Keywords: source term estimation; Bayesian inference; computational fluid dynamics; adjoint
            Ioannidis, G.; Vlachokostas, C.;
            Moussiopoulos,N.Identification of an        equations; hazardous material release; pollutant dispersion; urban environment
            UnknownStationaryEmissionSource
            in Urban GeometryUsingBayesian
            Inference. Atmosphere 2024, 15, 871.
            https://doi.org/10.3390/                    1. Introduction
            atmos15080871                                      Air pollution causes several negative impacts on human beings, materials, and ecosys-
            AcademicEditor: C√©lia Alves                 tems[1,2]. Emergency incidents involving the release of highly toxic air pollutants have
                                                        significant consequences for public health and environmental safety. Events such as the
            Received: 26 June 2024                      nucleardisastersatChernobyl[3]andFukushima[4],thechemicalindustrycatastrophesin
            Revised: 16 July 2024                       Bhopal[5]andSeveso[6],andtheSarinreleaseterroristattackattheJapanmetro[7]under-
            Accepted: 19 July 2024                      score the critical importance of an immediate response from relevant authorities to protect
            Published: 23 July 2024                     the population. In densely populated urban areas, the release of hazardous substances can
                                                        result in devastating outcomes, as a large number of individuals may be exposed to high
                                                        levels of toxic pollutant concentrations. Source Term Estimation (STE) methodologies are
            Copyright: ¬© 2024 by the authors.           designed to immediately identify the characteristics of the pollution source (such as its
            Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.          location, emission strength, and type of pollutant) to provide first responders with accurate
            This article is an open access article      information about the unknown source parameters.
            distributed under the terms and                    In general, Source Term Estimation (STE) algorithms assess the optimal agreement
            conditions of the Creative Commons          betweentheconcentrationspredicted by an Atmospheric Transport and Dispersion (ATD)
            Attribution (CC BY) license (https://       model and the concentrations observed from a sensor measurement network. An STE
            creativecommons.org/licenses/by/            problem can be solved by calculating the source¬±receptor relationship either through
            4.0/).                                     ¬™forward¬∫simulationsoftheATDmodelorusingtheadjointmethodintermsof¬™backward¬∫
            Atmosphere 2024, 15, 871. https://doi.org/10.3390/atmos15080871                                                         https://www.mdpi.com/journal/atmosphere
     Atmosphere 2024, 15, 871                                       2of19
                     simulations. The first approach involves multiple runs of the forward ATD model, setting a
                     different source term in each run, and comparing the simulated concentrations with the
                     observed data. This method is effective when the number of potential source terms is
                     limited and knowninadvance. However,whennoinformationaboutthesourcetermis
                     known,theforwardapproachbecomesimpracticalduetothehugenumberofsimulations
                     required. The computational cost of the forward method can be reduced by using the
                     adjoint approach, which was first applied to an STE problem by Pudykiewicz [8]. This
                     method solves the adjoint advection and diffusion equation only once for each sensor,
                     treating the sensor as a source.
                        STEapplicationshavebeendevelopedandtestedusingvariousATDmodels. Gaussian
                     modelshavebeenextensivelyemployedinpreviousworks[9¬±13]duetotheirsimplicity
                     andminimalcomputationaldemands. Conversely,ComputationalFluidDynamics(CFD)
                     models have been utilized in numerous studies [14¬±20] dealing with the complexity of
                     urbanenvironments,owingtotheircapabilitytoprovideaccuratepredictionsforconcen-
                     tration fields even at the street scale level. The vast majority of previous CFD-based STE
                     workshaveusedRANS-calculatedaveragedfieldstosolveadjointequations. CFD-based
                     calculations by Jia and Kikumoto [20] demonstrated that a better solution for source param-
                     eter estimation was achieved by solving the adjoint equations using fields derived from
                     transient Large Eddy Simulation (LES) models compared to the averaged fields calculated
                     bysteadysimulations. However,theutilization of transient LES results demands the stor-
                     ageofalargeamountofdatainordertocalculatetheadjointconcentrations. Eventhough
                     the authors successfully employed a wavelet-based compression technique to mitigate data
                     storage requirements in an application at a wind tunnel urban-like domain, the compu-
                     tational resources needed for LES simulations dramatically increase in cases of complex
                     geometries in real urban applications. Although CFD models have been utilized in several
                     pollutant dispersion applications [21,22], one of the primary limitations of CFD modelling,
                     including RANS,attheurbanscaleistheconsiderablecomputationalcostforlong-term
                     predictions or operational systems. Numerous prior dispersion modelling applications at
                     the urban scale have spanned temporal periods ranging from hours to days [23¬±25]. To ad-
                     dress this challenge, pollutant concentrations in urban environments have been calculated
                     for longer periods, extending to several months, using models without chemical reactions
                     in precalculated CFD simulations with varying inlet wind directions [26¬±28].
                        Anotherlimitation of STE research in urban environments involves the lack of data
                     related to measurements observed from a single standalone source. Consequently, most
                     of the developed methodologies have been applied in non-real-world scenarios. Many
                     previous studies have been evaluated based on field or wind tunnel experimental datasets.
                     Toaddresstheabsenceofobservationaldata,thedevelopedmethodologiescanbetested
                     in real-world geometries by utilizing synthetic observations, as demonstrated in previous
                     works[29,30].
                        Various algorithms and methods have been explored in previous studies for es-
                     timating source parameters. The optimization approach, extensively utilized in prior
                     research [14,31¬±33], includes algorithms that assess modelled and observed concentrations
                     using a cost function, the minimization of which determines the optimal combination of
                     source terms, leading to the final estimation. Another category of algorithms employed
                     in STE is rooted in Bayesian inference [16,19,20,34¬±38], which was initially implemented
                     in an STE context in local scale by Keats et al. [16]. Bayesian algorithms use a likelihood
                     function instead of a cost function, and they express source parameter estimation in terms
                     of Probability Distribution Functions (PDF), unlike optimization algorithms that derive
                     a single parameter value. Furthermore, Bayesian algorithms can incorporate any prior
                     knowledgeaboutsourcecharacteristicsintotheir framework. Theyhavebeeneffectively
                     utilized across various scales in STE applications, from local to global, exhibiting variations
                     in their characteristics, such as the likelihood or sampling process employed. Additional
                     details on STE algorithms are available in the literature [39¬±41].
          Atmosphere 2024, 15, 871                                                                                                                     3of19
                                                     The main goal of this work is to implement an STE methodology based on CFD
                                               numerical simulations within the complex geometry of a typical central European city.
                                               Therefore,thefocusofthecurrentresearchliesinthedevelopmentandassessmentofanSTE
                                               modelcapableofestimatingthelocationandreleaserateofanunknownsourcewithinareal
                                               urbanenvironment. Forthis purpose, Bayesian inference is employed, combined with the
                                               MarkovChainMonteCarlo(MCMC)algorithmforthesamplingprocess,aimingtoprovide
                                               solutions for unknown source variables as Probability Distribution Functions (PDF). The
                                               open-sourceCFDsoftwaresuiteOpenFOAMv2112isutilizedtocalculatethewindfieldand
                                               turbulenceparametersandtoresolvetheadjointadvectionanddiffusionequations. Thecity
                                               center of AugsburginBavaria,Germany,ischosenasthecasestudy. Toaddresstheabsence
                                               of ground-based in situ measurements, a forward model is used to solve the advection and
                                               diffusion equations, thereby deriving pollutant concentrations as synthetic observations at
                                               specific positions, indicative of sensor locations. The methodology is applied across several
                                               release scenarios of stationary point sources of non-reactive passive pollutant under steady
                                               meteorological conditions. Various source location scenarios are investigated under air
                                               flow conditions corresponding to two different wind directions. The accuracy of the model
                                               in estimating source parameters is evaluated for cases utilizing synthetic observations
                                               calculated directly from the forward model, as well as when Gaussian noise is added to the
                                               synthetic measurements.
                                               2. Materials and Methods
                                               2.1. Source¬±Receptor Relationship
                                                     The STE problem-solving process relies on comparing the observed pollutant con-
                                               centrations at the measurement points with the corresponding modelled concentrations
                                               calculated from an ATD model. Assuming a stationary point source of a passive scalar
                                               located at (xs,ys,zs) with a continuous release rate qs. The transport of the passive scalar
                                               within the spatial domain is described by the advection¬±diffusion equation:
                                                                              ‚àÇC +u ‚àÇC ‚àí ‚àÇ D‚àÇC =q Œ¥(x ,y ,z )                                             (1)
                                                                               ‚àÇt      j ‚àÇx     ‚àÇx     ‚àÇx       s    s   s   s
                                                                                           j       j      j
                                               where C represents the concentration of the passive scalar, uj = (u,v,w) is the vector of
                                               the three velocity components in Cartesian coordinates xj = (x,y,z), D is the turbulent
                                               diffusion coefficient, and Œ¥(¬∑) is the Dirac delta function. The diffusion coefficient can be
                                               expressed as the sum of the molecular diffusivity, Dm, and the turbulent diffusivity, Dt:
                                                                                      D=D +D =D + vt                                                      (2)
                                                                                              m       t      m     Sct
                                               where Sct is the turbulent Schmidt number, and vt is the eddy viscosity. Under steady
                                               meteorological conditions, Equation (1) simplifies to:
                                                                           uj ‚àÇC ‚àí ‚àÇ Dm+ vt ‚àÇC = qsŒ¥(xs,ys,zs)                                          (3)
                                                                              ‚àÇxj    ‚àÇxj            Sct   ‚àÇxj
                                                     Thesource-receptor relationship describes the sensitivity of concentration to every
                                               sensor position given a specific set of source parameters, s = (xs,ys,zs,qs). By utilizing the
                                               forwarddispersion model, the source¬±receptor relationship ri is calculated for each sensor
                                               i as:
                                                                                        r(s)i = C(xs,ys,zs,qs)i                                           (4)
                                                     In cases where the potential source parameters are unknown, meaning that the source
                                               could be located anywhere within the spatial domain with any release rate, calculating the
                                               source¬±receptor relationship becomes impractical due to the vast number of equations that
                 Atmosphere 2024, 15, 871                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4of19
                                                                                needtobesolved. Toaddressthisissue,theadjointadvection¬±diffusionequationcanbe
                                                                                usedinsteadofEquation(3)ingeneralformfromthefollowingrelationship:
                                                                                                                                 ‚àÇC‚àó                ‚àÇC‚àó              ‚àÇ                     vt ‚àÇC‚àó
                                                                                                                                       i   +uj            i   ‚àí               Dm+                           i   =pi                                                  (5)
                                                                                                                                   ‚àÇt                ‚àÇxj           ‚àÇxj                     Sct         ‚àÇxj
                                                                                          UndersteadymeteorologicalconditionsEquation(5)canbewrittenas:
                                                                                                                                             ‚àÇC‚àó              ‚àÇ                     vt ‚àÇC‚àó
                                                                                                                                        uj         i  ‚àí                Dm+                           i   =pi                                                         (6)
                                                                                                                                              ‚àÇxj           ‚àÇxj                     Sct         ‚àÇxj
                                                                                          Equation(6)issolvedoncetodeterminetheadjointconcentrationfield C‚àó forevery
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    i
                                                                                sensor i, using the sensor as the source with the term pi. In that case, the source¬±receptor
                                                                                relationship is calculated from the equation:
                                                                                                                                                     r(s)i = qsC‚àó(xs,ys,zs)i                                                                                         (7)
                                                                                          Adetaileddescription of the calculation of the source¬±receptor relationship based on
                                                                                the adjoint advection¬±diffusion equation is given by Pudykiewicz [8], as well as in many
                                                                                STEestimationstudies[16,17,20].
                                                                                2.2. Bayesian Inference
                                                                                          Bayesianinferencemethodsusedinsourcereconstructionproblemsestimatethesetof
                                                                                unknownsourceparametersbyincorporatingaprobabilisticapproachintotheinputdata.
                                                                               Assumingasetofmeasurementdatad,theprobabilitythatthesetofparameterssrepresents
                                                                                the true source parameters with respect to d can be calculated using Bayes theorem:
                                                                                                                                           p(s|d) = p(d|s)p(s) ‚àù p(d|s)p(s)                                                                                          (8)
                                                                                                                                                                     p(d)
                                                                               where p(d|s) is the likelihood function expressing the probability of observing the values d
                                                                                giventhesourceterms, p(s) is the probability of any prior information about the unknown
                                                                                source parameters s, and p(d), the so-called evidence, is a normalizing parameter that does
                                                                                not depend on s and does not influence the relative probabilities. The term p(s|d), the
                                                                               posterior probability, is the target variable in source parameters estimation problems.
                                                                                2.2.1. Likelihood Function
                                                                                          In STE research, the likelihood function describes the probability that receptors will
                                                                                observe a set di of measurements given a source term s. In practical terms, the likelihood
                                                                                quantifies the difference between the modelled concentrations ri(s) and the actual mea-
                                                                                sured concentrations di at sensor positions i. For a given set of source parameters s, the
                                                                                relationship between the modelled concentrations ri(s) and the observed concentrations di
                                                                                canbeexpressedas:
                                                                                                                                                               di = r(s)i + e                                                                                        (9)
                                                                               whereeisanimportantvariableinSTEthatencompassesboththebiasesofthemeasure-
                                                                                mentinstrumentandthemodelitself. AccordingtoYeeetal.[38],themodelerror,which
                                                                                is the main contributor to the total error, is difficult to characterize as it originates from
                                                                                complexprocesses. Therefore, it is common to assume that e follows a specific distribution.
                                                                               Wangetal.[37]comparedvariousassumptionsabouttheerrordistributionandfoundno
                                                                                clear superiority among them. In the STE literature [16,18¬±20], the simplest and commonly
                                                                                adoptedassumptionisthattheerror e follows a Gaussian distribution with a mean of zero
                                                                                andstandarddeviation œÉ. In that case, the likelihood function is given as:
                                                                                                                                    i
                                                                                                                                          p(d|s) ‚àù exp"‚àí1‚àë (di ‚àír(s)i)2#                                                                                           (10)
                                                                                                                                                                           2                  œÉ2
                                                                                                                                                                                                 i
         Atmosphere 2024, 15, 871                                                                                             5of19
                                       2.2.2. Prior Probability
                                            The prior probability serves to incorporate any existing knowledge regarding the
                                       characteristics of the source before conducting inference. Prior information can enhance the
                                       speedandeffectiveness of the inference algorithm [20]. In the present study, it is assumed
                                       that no prior knowledge about the source characteristics is available before conducting
                                       inference. Additionally, the source parameters (location and release rate) are considered to
                                       beindependent,meaningthevalueofonedoesnotinfluencetheother. Consequently,a
                                       uniformdistribution is adopted to represent the prior knowledge as:
                                                                             p(s) = constant                                    (11)
                                            Equation(11)indicates that the source can be located anywhere and the release rate
                                       cantakeanyvalue. It is essential to note, however, that the source term must always have
                                       ameaningfulvalue. Forinstance, the source should be located within the computational
                                       domain,orthereleaserateshouldremainpositivethroughoutthecalculations.
                                       2.2.3. Posterior Probability and Sampling Process
                                            Byincorporating the likelihood function (Equation (10)) and the prior (Equation (11))
                                       in Equation (8), the posterior probability is formulated as:
                                                               p(s|d) ‚àù p(d|s)p(s) ‚àù exp"‚àí1‚àë (di ‚àíri)2#                         (12)
                                                                                            2        œÉ2
                                                                                                      i
                                            ThesolutiontotheSTEproblemcanbeobtainedbysolvingEquation(12)forevery
                                       possible source term and estimating the source term that maximizes the posterior proba-
                                       bility. This process requires a substantial amount of computational resources. To mitigate
                                       this computational cost, a sampling algorithm can be employed. In this research, the
                                       Metropolis¬±Hastings MCMCalgorithm[42¬±44]isutilized.
                                       2.3. Case Description
                                            Augsburg is the third largest city in the German state Bavaria, with a population
                                       exceeding 300,000 citizens. The broader metropolitan area of Augsburg features significant
                                       industrial activity. The complex geometry of Augsburg‚Äôs city center and its industrial activ-
                                       ities align with the characteristics of the case study that this research aims to investigate.
                                            For the construction of the 3D urban geometry model, information from the open-
                                       source tool OpenStreetMap (OSM) [45] is used. OSM is a community-driven software
                                       designedforcollecting and sharing geographic data. OSM provides both the footprints of
                                       2Dgeometriesanddetailsaboutbuildingheights. Previousstudies [46¬±48] have shown
                                       that OSM is capable of competing with commercial providers in offering high-quality
                                       data, especially in urban environments. In this work, we assume flat rooftops for the
                                       buildings and neglect ventilation structures. These simplifications have been used in urban
                                       dispersion modelling [23] and are not expected to significantly affect the accuracy of the
                                       simulations. Furthermore, the urban environment‚Äôs geometry undergoes a pre-processing
                                       step to eliminate inconsistencies in building surfaces. This ensures that the dataset can be
                                       utilized for developing the computational mesh without requiring further interferences.
                                       Therepresentation of the city‚Äôs structure and geometrical characteristics is crucial when
                                       developing a CFD model for air quality modelling [49]. Figure 1a visually depicts the
                                                                              2
                                       domainencompassingthe2√ó1.6km studyarea. Themaximumbuildingheight(H                          )
                                                                                                                               max
                                       within the area of interest is 83.5 m. As illustrated in Figure 1b, the digital domain‚Äôs
                                       boundariesextendbeyondtheareaofinterest,withanupstreamdistanceof15H                    , and
                                                                                                                           max
                                       the height of the domain is set at 6H    [50].
                                                                             max
           Atmosphere 2024, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6  of  20 
                                 Atmosphere 2024, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6  of  20 
                                  
                             Atmosphere 2024, 15, 871                                                              domain‚Äôs boundaries extend beyond the area of interest, with an upstream distance of 
                                                                                                                                         domain‚Äôs boundaries extend beyond the area of interest, with an upstream distance of 
                                                                                                                   15Ì†µÌ∞ªÌ†µÌ∞ª                    , and the height of the domain is set at 6Ì†µÌ∞ªÌ†µÌ∞ª                                                                                                                  [50].                                                                                                                            6of19
                                                                                                                                         15Ì†µÌ∞ªÌ†µÌ∞ª                    , and the height of the domain is set at 6Ì†µÌ∞ªÌ†µÌ∞ª                                                                                                                  [50]. 
                                                                                                                                Ì†µÌ±öÌ†µÌ±öÌ†µÌ±öÌ†µÌ±öÌ†µÌ±öÌ†µÌ±ö          Ì†µÌ±öÌ†µÌ±öÌ†µÌ±öÌ†µÌ±öÌ†µÌ±öÌ†µÌ±ö                                                                                                                             Ì†µÌ±öÌ†µÌ±öÌ†µÌ±öÌ†µÌ±öÌ†µÌ±öÌ†µÌ±ö          Ì†µÌ±öÌ†µÌ±öÌ†µÌ±öÌ†µÌ±öÌ†µÌ±öÌ†µÌ±ö
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                   Figure 1. Area of interest in Augsburg map (a) and computational domain containing the city‚Äôs 
                                                                                                                                         Figure 1. Area of interest in Augsburg map (a) and computational domain containing the city‚Äôs 
                                                                                                                                      Figure 1. Area of interest in Augsburg map (a) and computational domain containing the city‚Äôs
                                                                                                                   digital model (b). 
                                                                                                                                         digital model (b). 
                                                                                                                                      digital model (b).
                                                                                                                   2.3.1. Computational Mesh 
                                                                                                                                      2.3.1. Computational Mesh
                                                                                                                                         2.3.1. Computational Mesh 
                                                                                                                                    A computational mesh is constructed to include the city‚Äôs geometrical characteristics. 
                                                                                                                                                       Acomputationalmeshisconstructedtoincludethecity‚Äôsgeometricalcharacteristics.
                                                                                                                                                          A computational mesh is constructed to include the city‚Äôs geometrical characteristics. 
                                                                                                                   The resTheoluresolutiontion on the bonutheildbuildingsings and thande grtheoungrd iounds 1 mis, a1llm,owallowinging for hiforgh shighpatiaspatiall accuraaccuracycy 
                                                                                                                                         The resolution on the buildings and the ground is 1 m, allowing for high spatial accuracy 
                                                                                                                                      of the CFD outputs with high refinement in the areas of street canyons. The resolution on
                                                                                                                   of the CFD outputs with high reÔ¨Ånement in the areas of street canyons. The resolution on 
                                                                                                                                         of the CFD outputs with high reÔ¨Ånement in the areas of street canyons. The resolution on 
                                                                                                                                      the boundaries of the domain is set at 30 m. In Figure 1b is shown the density box that
                                                                                                                   the boundaries of the domain is set at 30 m. In Figure 1b is shown the density box that is 
                                                                                                                                         the boundaries of the domain is set at 30 m. In Figure 1b is shown the density box that is 
                                                                                                                                      is set around the city is used to set a maximum grid size of 4 m, in order to have higher
                                                                                                                   set around the city is used to set a maximum grid size of 4 m, in order to have higher 
                                                                                                                                         set around the city is used to set a maximum grid size of 4 m, in order to have higher 
                                                                                                                                      spatial resolution compared to the rest of the domain in the area of interest containing the
                                                                                                                   spatial resolution compared to the rest of the domain in the area of interest containing the 
                                                                                                                                         spatial resolution compared to the rest of the domain in the area of interest containing the 
                                                                                                                                      buildings. Figure 2a illustrates the mesh in building surfaces of a domain‚Äôs neighborhood
                                                                                                                   buildings. Figure 2a illustrates the mesh in building surfaces of a domain‚Äôs neighborhood 
                                                                                                                                         buildings. Figure 2a illustrates the mesh in building surfaces of a domain‚Äôs neighborhood 
                                                                                                                                      in the x ‚àí z plane, while Figure 2b shows the mesh in the ground and building surfaces
                                                                                                                   in the  Ì†µÌ±•Ì†µÌ±• ‚àí Ì†µÌ±ßÌ†µÌ±ß  plane, while Figure 2b shows the mesh in the ground and building surfaces 
                                                                                                                                         in the  Ì†µÌ±•Ì†µÌ±• ‚àí Ì†µÌ±ßÌ†µÌ±ß  plane, while Figure 2b shows the mesh in the ground and building surfaces 
                                                                                                                                      in a specific area in the x ‚àí y plane. In total, the computational grid consists of 48 million
                                                                                                                   in a speciÔ¨Åc area in the  Ì†µÌ±•Ì†µÌ±• ‚àí Ì†µÌ±¶Ì†µÌ±¶  plane. In total, the computational grid consists of 48 million 
                                                                                                                                         in a speciÔ¨Åc area in the  Ì†µÌ±•Ì†µÌ±• ‚àí Ì†µÌ±¶Ì†µÌ±¶  plane. In total, the computational grid consists of 48 million 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                +                 +
                                                                                                                                      tetrahedral unstructured elements. The dimensionless parameter y , which describes the
                                                                                                                   tetrahedral unstructured elements. The dimensionless parameter y                                                                                                                                                                                                   +
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   , which describes the 
                                                                                                                                         tetrahedral unstructured elements. The dimensionless parameter y , which describes the 
                                                                                                                                     quality of the mesh at cells near the wall, is calculated for the ground and buildings at a
                                                                                                                   quality of the mesh at cells near the wall, is calculated for the ground and buildings at a 
                                                                                                                                         quality of the mesh at cells near the wall, is calculated for the ground and buildings at a 
                                                                                                                                     value of 255 and 151, respectively, with an acceptable value lying between 30 and 300 [51].
                                                                                                                   value of 255 and 151, respectively, with an acceptable value lying between 30 and 300 [51]. 
                                                                                                                                         value of 255 and 151, respectively, with an acceptable value lying between 30 and 300 [51]. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (a)                   (a) 
                                                                                                                                      Figure 2. Cont.
                                  
  Atmosphere 2024, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW                         7  of  20 
     Atmosphere 2024, 15, 871                                       7of19
                                                                  
                                           (b) 
                   Figure 2. Computational mesh (a) in the buildings in the Ì†µÌ±•Ì†µÌ±• ‚àí Ì†µÌ±ßÌ†µÌ±ß plane and (b) in the buildings and 
                     Figure 2. Computational mesh (a) in the buildings in the x ‚àíz plane and (b) in the buildings and
                   ground in the Ì†µÌ±•Ì†µÌ±• ‚àí Ì†µÌ±¶Ì†µÌ±¶  plane. 
                     groundinthe x‚àíyplane.
                     2.3.2. Release Scenarios√êDatasets
                   2.3.2. Release Scenarios‚ÄîDatasets 
                        Theabsenceofactualobservationsofpollutantsemittedbyindividualsourcesinthe
                     The absence of actual observations of pollutants emitted by individual sources in the 
                     city of Augsburg necessitated the generation of synthetic measurements to facilitate testing
                   city  of  Augsburg  necessitated  the  generation  of  synthetic  measurements  to  facilitate 
                     of the methodology. Within the defined spatial domain, three different point sources are
                   testing  of  the  methodology. Within the deÔ¨Åned spatial domain, three diÔ¨Äerent point 
                     placed in locations with varying characteristics to assess the accuracy of STE outcomes
                   sources are placed in locations with varying characteristics to assess the accuracy of STE 
                     across different scenarios. Each source is subjected to two different airflow conditions.
                   outcomes across diÔ¨Äerent scenarios. Each source is subjected to two diÔ¨Äerent airÔ¨Çow 
                     Specifically, the first source (S1) is positioned outside the building area boundaries but
                   conditions.  SpeciÔ¨Åcally,  the  Ô¨Årst  source  (S1)  is  positioned  outside  the  building  area 
                     within the computational domain. The second source (S2) is situated in the northeast
                   boundaries but within the computational domain. The second source (S2) is situated in 
                     section of the city within the urban building area. The third source (S3) is placed near the
                   the northeast section of the city within the urban building area. The third source (S3) is 
                     center of the domain at ground level on the x ‚àíy plane, also within the urban layout. The
                   placed near the center of the domain at ground level on the Ì†µÌ±•Ì†µÌ±• ‚àí Ì†µÌ±¶Ì†µÌ±¶ plane, also within the 
                     altitude for all three sources is at the center of the computational cell closest to ground
                   urban layout. The altitude for all three sources is at the center of the computational cell 
                     level, i.e., 2.63 m for S1, 0.12 m for S2, and 0.49 m for S3. The wind flow scenarios are
                   closest to ground level, i.e., 2.63 m for S1, 0.12 m for S2, and 0.49 m for S3. The wind Ô¨Çow 
                     examinedusingtwodifferentwinddirectionsattheinlets: one at 19 degrees and the other
                   scenarios are examined using two diÔ¨Äerent wind directions at the inlets: one at 19 degrees 
                     at 50 degrees. Thisinvestigationencompassedatotalofsixreleasescenarios. Forgenerating
                   and the other at 50 degrees. This investigation encompassed a total of six release scenarios. 
                     synthetic observations, 20 positions were chosen within the computational domain to serve
                   For generating synthetic observations, 20 positions were chosen within the computational 
                     as locations for synthetic receptors. All sensor positions are within the urban building area.
                   domain to serve as locations for synthetic receptors. All sensor positions are within the 
                     The altitude of the sensor positions is set at the center of the computational cell closest
                   urban  building  area.  The  altitude  of  the  sensor  positions  is  set  at  the  center  of  the 
                     to 3 m in height. Therefore, the height of the sensors ranges from 1.62 to 4.4 m. Figure 3
                   computational cell closest to 3 m in height. Therefore, the height of the sensors ranges 
                     illustrates the locations of the three sources marked with yellow (an ‚Äòx‚Äô symbol for S1, a
                   from 1.62 to 4.4 m. Figure 3 illustrates the locations of the three sources marked with 
                     square for S2, and a diamond for S3), and the 20 sensor positions (depicted with dots), in
                   yellow (an ‚Äòx‚Äô symbol for S1, a square for S2, and a diamond for S3), and the 20 sensor 
                     the x ‚àíy plane of the spatial domain.
                   positions (depicted with dots), in the Ì†µÌ±•Ì†µÌ±• ‚àí Ì†µÌ±¶Ì†µÌ±¶  plane of the spatial domain. 
   
     Atmosphere 2024, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW                        8  of  20 
       Atmosphere 2024, 15, 871                                     8of19
                                                                    
                     Figure 3. The locations of the three sources, S1, S2, and S3, are indicated with ¬™x¬∫, square, and
                     Figure 3. The locations of the three sources, S1, S2, and S3, are indicated with ‚Äúx‚Äù, square, and 
                     diamondsymbols,respectively, while the sensors are marked with dots in the x‚àíy plane.
                     diamond symbols, respectively, while the sensors are marked with dots in the Ì†µÌ±•Ì†µÌ±• ‚àí Ì†µÌ±¶Ì†µÌ±¶ plane. 
                        ThesyntheticmeasurementdatawereobtainedbyperformingaCFDsimulationfor
                        The synthetic measurement data were obtained by performing a CFD simulation for 
                     each of the six release scenarios. Using the two wind field scenarios derived from the wind
                     each of the six release scenarios. Using the two wind Ô¨Åeld scenarios derived from the wind 
                     flow model, the forward advection and diffusion equation in steady state (Equation (3))
                     Ô¨Çow model, the forward advection and diÔ¨Äusion equation in steady state (Equation (3)) 
                     was applied in each simulation with the corresponding source term for each scenario.
                     was applied in each simulation with the corresponding source term for each scenario. 
                     Kovalets et al. [17] showed that an error is observed when comparing the source¬±receptor
                     Kovalets et al. [17] showed that an error is observed when comparing the source‚Äìreceptor 
                     relationship calculated by the forward model versus the adjoint model. However, this
                     relationship calculated by the forward model versus the adjoint model. However, this 
                     discrepancy is relatively small compared to the actual bias observed between modelled
                     discrepancy is relatively small compared to the actual bias observed between modelled 
                     andmeasuredconcentrations. Hence,directlyusingforwardconcentrationstorepresent
                     and measured concentrations. Hence, directly using forward concentrations to represent 
                     measurementscanapproximateanalmostidealmodellingscenario. Toaddressthisissue,
                     measurements can approximate an almost ideal modelling scenario. To address this issue, 
                     Gaussiannoiseisaddedtotheforwardconcentrationsatsensorlocations. Thenoisefor
                     Gaussian noise is added to the forward concentrations at sensor locations. The noise for 
                     each sensor was generated from a zero-mean Gaussian distribution, and the standard
                     each sensor was generated from a zero-mean Gaussian distribution, and the standard 
                     deviation was chosen to ensure that 95% of the distribution resulted in noisy data that
                     deviation was chosen to ensure that 95% of the distribution resulted in noisy data that 
                     varied by no more than a factor of two compared to the non-noisy data. In this study, the
                     varied by no more than a factor of two compared to the non-noisy data. In this study, the 
                     STEalgorithmwasinitiallyappliedtosyntheticobservationsfromtheidealmodel(referred
                     STE  algorithm  was  initially  applied  to  synthetic  observations  from  the  ideal  model 
                     to as ¬™non-noisy¬∫), followed by application to synthetic observations with added Gaussian
                     (referred to as ‚Äúnon-noisy‚Äù), followed by application to synthetic observations with added 
                     noise (referred to as ¬™noisy¬∫).
                     Gaussian noise (referred to as ‚Äúnoisy‚Äù). 
                     2.4. Set Up
                     2.4. Set Up 
                     2.4.1. Numerical Simulations
                     2.4.1. Numerical Simulations 
                        Asperthemethodology,asteady-stateCFDsimulationisconductedforeachwind
                     direction. The average velocity and turbulence viscosity fields obtained from these sim-
                        As per the methodology, a steady-state CFD simulation is conducted for each wind 
                     ulations are utilized to solve both the forward and adjoint advection¬±diffusion equations.
                     direction.  The  average  velocity  and  turbulence  viscosity  Ô¨Åelds  obtained  from  these 
                     OpenFOAMv2112,anopen-sourceCFDsoftware,isemployedforallnumericalsimulations.
                     simulations  are  utilized  to  solve  both  the  forward  and  adjoint  advection‚ÄìdiÔ¨Äusion 
      
        Atmosphere 2024, 15, 871                                                                                        9of19
                                          For the wind field simulations, the RANS approach is used together with the standard
                                      k-Œµ turbulence model within the Semi-Implicit Method for Pressure Linked Equations
                                      (SIMPLE)solver. To solve Equation (3) (forward model) and Equation (6) (adjoint model),
                                      the transport of the passive non-reactive pollutant is calculated by modifying the solver
                                      ScalarTransportFOAMforsteady-state conditions. Each simulation is conducted with a
                                      timestepof1sforadurationsufficienttoreachsteadyconditions. Themoleculardiffusivity,
                                      Dm,includedinEquations(3)and(6),isconsiderednottoinfluencethedispersionofthe
                                      passive pollutant, as it is orders of magnitude smaller than the turbulent diffusivity, Dt,
                                      as evidenced by Henry et al. [52] for a particle dispersion case. Tominaga and Stathopou-
                                      los [53] showed that the Schmidt number value, Sct, in Equations (3) and (6) can vary from
                                      0.2 to 1.3. Since investigating the Schmidt number value is beyond the scope of the current
                                      study,itissetto0.7assuggestedbyWangandMcNamara[54]. Thermalheatfluxeffectsare
                                      considered negligible, and neutral stability conditions are assumed. The strong mean shear
                                      fromtheinteraction of the geometry surfaces with the wind flow at an urban scale leads to
                                      amuchhighercontributionofdynamicaleffectsthanthermalones[55]. Insuchcases,the
                                      atmospheric conditions could approximate neutral stability, especially during days of low
                                      solar radiation. This assumption has been adopted in previous CFD pollutant dispersion
                                      implementationsinrealenvironments,providingaccurateresults[23,24,28]. For neutral
                                      stability conditions, the boundary conditions at the inlet can be specified following the
                                      equations of Richards and Hoxey [56]. The inflow velocity profile, U(z), is calculated from
                                      Equation (13), where u‚àó is the friction velocity (Equation (14)), Œ∫ = 0.41 is the von Karman
                                      constant, and z0 = 2 m is the aerodynamic roughness length. The reference velocity, U  ,
                                                                                                                           ref
                                      is set to 1 m/s at the reference height, zref, of 3 m.
                                                                      U(z) = u‚àólnz+z0                                   (13)
                                                                               Œ∫       z0
                                                                                  U Œ∫
                                                                         u‚àó =     ref                                   (14)
                                                                               ln zref+z0
                                                                                     z0
                                          The turbulent kinetic energy, k, and the turbulence dissipation rate, Œµ, at the inlet
                                      boundaries are calculated from Equations (15) and (16) [56].
                                                                                 (u‚àó)2
                                                                             k = pC                                       (15)
                                                                                     ¬µ
                                                                                   (u‚àó)3
                                                                         Œµ(z) = Œ∫(z+z )                                   (16)
                                                                                        0
                                      whereC =0.09isamodelconstant.
                                              ¬µ
                                      2.4.2. Metropolis¬±Hastings MCMC
                                          TheMetropolis¬±HastingsMCMCalgorithmwasimplementedwith100,000iterations
                                      for each case application. A burn-in period of 50,000 samples was initially used, followed
                                      bythesubsequent50,000samplesforestimatingtheposteriordistribution. The algorithm
                                      initiates from a random point near a sensor observing a concentration higher than a
                                      threshold value. The quantity œÉ2 in Equation (12) is an important variable that represents
                                                                     i
                                      the allowable error at each sensor. This variable can be independently determined for each
                                      sensor, as shown in the literature [16,18]. In this work, we followed the assumption of Jia
                                      andKikumoto[20]thatœÉ2 = a√óDi,whereaistheconstantvalueacrossallsensors. For
                                                               i
                                      the non-noisy cases, the a value ranges from 0.01 to 0.05, whereas in the noisy cases, it
                                      ranges from 0.05 to 0.2.
         Atmosphere 2024, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW                                                                                 10  of  20 
         Atmosphere 2024, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW                                                                                 10  of  20 
          
         Atmosphere 2024, 15, 871                                                                                                10of19
          
                                         3. Results 
                                         3. Results 
                                         3. Results
                                         3.1. Synthetic Observations 
                                         3.1. Synthetic Observations
                                         3.1. Synthetic Observations 
                                              One important aspect of STE applications is the number of sensors aÔ¨Äected by a 
                                              One important aspect of STE applications is the number of sensors affected by a
                                              One important aspect of STE applications is the number of sensors aÔ¨Äected by a 
                                         pollutant source. Here, we present preliminary outcomes of forward simulations used to 
                                         pollutant source. Here, we present preliminary outcomes of forward simulations used
                                         pollutant source. Here, we present preliminary outcomes of forward simulations used to 
                                         gather both noisy and non-noisy data. Figures 4a‚Äìc and 5a‚Äìc illustrate the plumes from 
                                         to gather both noisy and non-noisy data. Figures 4a¬±c and 5a¬±c illustrate the plumes
                                         gather both noisy and non-noisy data. Figures 4a‚Äìc and 5a‚Äìc illustrate the plumes from 
                                         three  sources  under  wind  directions  of  19  and  50  degrees,  respectively.  The  sensor 
                                         fromthree sources under wind directions of 19 and 50 degrees, respectively. The sensor
                                         three  sources  under  wind  directions  of  19  and  50  degrees,  respectively.  The  sensor 
                                         network (marked by red dots) is displayed for each release scenario. The plumes indicate 
                                         network(markedbyreddots)isdisplayedforeachreleasescenario. Theplumesindicate
                                         network (marked by red dots) is displayed for each release scenario. The plumes indicate 
                                         the dispersion of the passive pollutant at a height of 3 m above ground level in the Ì†µÌ±•Ì†µÌ±• ‚àí Ì†µÌ±¶Ì†µÌ±¶ 
                                         the dispersion of the passive pollutant at a height of 3 m above ground level in the x ‚àíy
                                         the dispersion of the passive pollutant at a height of 3 m above ground level in the Ì†µÌ±•Ì†µÌ±• ‚àí Ì†µÌ±¶Ì†µÌ±¶ 
                                         plane. It is important to note that the plumes visualize predicted concentrations above a 
                                         plane. It is important to note that the plumes visualize predicted concentrations above a
                                         plane. It is important to note that the plumes visualize predicted concentrations above a 
                                         threshold value, below which concentrations are deemed insigniÔ¨Åcant for the STE process. 
                                         threshold value, below which concentrations are deemed insignificant for the STE process.
                                         threshold value, below which concentrations are deemed insigniÔ¨Åcant for the STE process. 
                                                                    ‚àí10     3
                                                                   ‚àí10       3
                                         This threshold is set at 10   kg/m . For the 19 degrees wind direction scenario, 10 sensors 
                                         This threshold is set at 10   kg/m . Forthe19degreeswinddirectionscenario,10sensors
                                         This threshold is set at 10‚àí10     3
                                                                       kg/m . For the 19 degrees wind direction scenario, 10 sensors 
                                         detect concentrations above the threshold from the S1 release (Figure 4a), and the S2 
                                         detect concentrations above the threshold from the S1 release (Figure 4a), and the S2 release
                                         detect concentrations above the threshold from the S1 release (Figure 4a), and the S2 
                                         release (Figure 4b). Conversely, the plume from the S3 source (Figure 4c) aÔ¨Äects only four 
                                         (Figure 4b). Conversely, the plume from the S3 source (Figure 4c) affects only four sensors,
                                         release (Figure 4b). Conversely, the plume from the S3 source (Figure 4c) aÔ¨Äects only four 
                                         sensors, due to S3‚Äôs position and the wind direction. The corresponding plumes for the 50 
                                         duetoS3‚Äôspositionandthewinddirection. Thecorrespondingplumesforthe50degrees
                                         sensors, due to S3‚Äôs position and the wind direction. The corresponding plumes for the 50 
                                         degrees  wind  direction  illustrate  that  in  the  S1  scenario  (Figure  5a),  13  sensors  are 
                                         winddirection illustrate that in the S1 scenario (Figure 5a), 13 sensors are impacted by the
                                         degrees  wind  direction  illustrate  that  in  the  S1  scenario  (Figure  5a),  13  sensors  are 
                                         impacted by the plume, in the S2 (Figure 5b) case, 10 sensors, and in the S3 (Figure 5c) 
                                         plume,intheS2(Figure5b)case,10sensors,andintheS3(Figure5c)release,onlythree
                                         impacted by the plume, in the S2 (Figure 5b) case, 10 sensors, and in the S3 (Figure 5c) 
                                         sensors detect higher concentrations than the threshold value.
                                         release, only three sensors detect higher concentrations than the threshold value. 
                                         release, only three sensors detect higher concentrations than the threshold value. 
                                                                                                                                        
                             (a)                                       (b)                                       (c)                    
                             (a)                                       (b)                                       (c) 
                                         Figure 4. Pollutant plumes of S1 (a), S2 (b), and S3 (c) for 19 degrees wind direction in Ì†µÌ±•Ì†µÌ±• ‚àí Ì†µÌ±¶Ì†µÌ±¶  plane 
                                         Figure 4. Pollutant plumes of S1 (a), S2 (b), and S3 (c) for 19 degrees wind direction in x ‚àí y plane at
                                         Figure 4. Pollutant plumes of S1 (a), S2 (b), and S3 (c) for 19 degrees wind direction in Ì†µÌ±•Ì†µÌ±• ‚àí Ì†µÌ±¶Ì†µÌ±¶  plane 
                                         at 3 m height. The sensors are depicted with red dots. 
                                         3 mheight. The sensors are depicted with red dots.
                                         at 3 m height. The sensors are depicted with red dots. 
                                                                                                                                        
                             (a)                                       (b)                                       (c)                    
                             (a)                                       (b)                                       (c) 
                                         Figure 5. Pollutant plumes of S1 (a), S2 (b), and S3 (c) for 50 degrees wind direction in Ì†µÌ±•Ì†µÌ±• ‚àí Ì†µÌ±¶Ì†µÌ±¶  plane 
                                         Figure 5. Pollutant plumes of S1 (a), S2 (b), and S3 (c) for 50 degrees wind direction in Ì†µÌ±•Ì†µÌ±• ‚àí Ì†µÌ±¶Ì†µÌ±¶  plane 
                                         Figure 5. Pollutant plumes of S1 (a), S2 (b), and S3 (c) for 50 degrees wind direction in x ‚àí y plane at
                                         at 3 m height. The sensors are depicted with red dots. 
                                         at 3 m height. The sensors are depicted with red dots. 
                                         3 mheight. The sensors are depicted with red dots.
                                             
                                             
          
          
     Atmosphere 2024, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW                        11  of  20 
      
     Atmosphere 2024, 15, 871                                       11of19
                      3.2. Source Term Estimation 
                     3.2. Source Term Estimation
                        In this section we present and discuss the results of STE implementation using the 
                        In this section we present and discuss the results of STE implementation using the
                      Metropolis‚ÄìHastings MCMC algorithm. The algorithm is applied independently for both 
                     Metropolis¬±Hastings MCMCalgorithm. Thealgorithmisappliedindependentlyforboth
                      wind directions in each emission scenario, using both noisy and non-noisy synthetic 
                     wind directions in each emission scenario, using both noisy and non-noisy synthetic
                      observations, totaling 12 Metropolis-Hastings MCMC runs. The source parameters (Ì†µÌ±•Ì†µÌ±•,Ì†µÌ±¶Ì†µÌ±¶,Ì†µÌ±ßÌ†µÌ±ß 
                     observations, totaling 12 Metropolis-Hastings MCMC runs. The source parameters (x, y, z
                      coordinates of the source location and the release rate  Ì†µÌ±ûÌ†µÌ±û ) derived as PDFs from the 
                     coordinatesofthesourcelocationandthereleaserateq)derivedasPDFsfromthealgorithm
                      algorithm are compared with the true source parameters to evaluate the algorithm‚Äôs 
                     are compared with the true source parameters to evaluate the algorithm‚Äôs accuracy in each
                      accuracy in each scenario. Also, the average values of the PDFs are calculated to provide 
                     scenario. Also, the average values of the PDFs are calculated to provide direct comparisons
                      direct comparisons with the true source parameters. 
                     withthetruesourceparameters.
                        In Figure 6a,b, the locations of the true and estimated sources for each scenario in the 
                        In Figure 6a,b, the locations of the true and estimated sources for each scenario in the
                      Ì†µÌ±•Ì†µÌ±• ‚àí Ì†µÌ±¶Ì†µÌ±¶  plane within the computational domain are illustrated. SpeciÔ¨Åcally, true sources are 
                      x‚àíyplanewithinthecomputationaldomainareillustrated. Specifically, true sources are
                      marked with red squares, the averaged PDF estimated sources are shown with green dots 
                     markedwithredsquares,theaveragedPDFestimatedsourcesareshownwithgreendots
                      for the non-noisy data, and with orange ‚Äúx‚Äù symbols for the noisy ones in both 19 degrees 
                     for the non-noisy data, and with orange ¬™x¬∫ symbols for the noisy ones in both 19 degrees
                      (Figure 6a) and 50 degrees (Figure 6b) wind direction. In the 19 degrees case, scenarios S1 
                     (Figure 6a) and 50 degrees (Figure 6b) wind direction. In the 19 degrees case, scenarios
                      and  S2  show  that  both  noisy  and  non-noisy  estimates  lie  near  to  the  true  sources. 
                     S1 and S2 show that both noisy and non-noisy estimates lie near to the true sources.
                      However, for scenario S3, the non-noisy data provide better source location estimates. In 
                     However,forscenarioS3,thenon-noisydataprovidebettersourcelocationestimates. In
                      the 50 degrees wind direction scenarios, the non-noisy data applications consistently yield 
                     the 50 degrees wind direction scenarios, the non-noisy data applications consistently yield
                     better predictions for the estimated source positions across all cases.
                      better predictions for the estimated source positions across all cases. 
                                                                     
                     (a)                             (b) 
                      Figure 6. Locations of the true (red squares), estimated non-noisy (green dots), and estimated noisy 
                     Figure 6. Locations of the true (red squares), estimated non-noisy (green dots), and estimated noisy
                      (orange ‚Äúx‚Äù) sources in the three release cases (S1, S2, S3) at 19 degrees (a) and 50 degrees (b) wind 
                     (orange ¬™x¬∫) sources in the three release cases (S1, S2, S3) at 19 degrees (a) and 50 degrees (b) wind
                      direction in the Ì†µÌ±•Ì†µÌ±• ‚àí Ì†µÌ±¶Ì†µÌ±¶  plane. 
                     direction in the x ‚àí y plane.
                        Figure  7  presents  the  Metropolis‚ÄìHastings  MCMC  estimations  in  the  source 
                        Figure 7 presents the Metropolis¬±Hastings MCMC estimations in the source parame-
                      parameters for the three release scenarios for the 19 degrees wind direction case. The 
                     ters for the three release scenarios for the 19 degrees wind direction case. The estimations
                      estimations are represented as PDF distributions using histograms for both noisy (in 
                     are represented as PDF distributions using histograms for both noisy (in orange) and non-
                      orange) and non-noisy (in grey) data. The average values of the distributions are indicated 
                     noisy(ingrey)data. Theaveragevaluesofthedistributionsareindicatedwitharedlinefor
                      with a red line for noisy data and a blue line for non-noisy data, while the true source 
                     noisy data and a blue line for non-noisy data, while the true source parameters are marked
                      parameters are marked with a green line. Generally, in non-noisy synthetic observation 
                     withagreenline. Generally, in non-noisy synthetic observation cases, the algorithm yields
                      cases, the algorithm yields better estimations, with many parameters closely matching the 
                     better estimations, with many parameters closely matching the true values. Moreover, in
                      true values. Moreover, in many cases, the applications using noisy data provide similar 
                     manycases, the applications using noisy data provide similar predictions compared to
                      predictions compared to those using non-noisy data. 
                     those using non-noisy data.
      
     Atmosphere 2024, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW                        12  of  20 
     Atmosphere 2024, 15, 871                                       12of19
      
                                                                       
                     (a)                             (b) 
                                                       
                                     (c) 
                     Figure 7. PDF distributions of the estimated parameters (Ì†µÌ±•Ì†µÌ±•,Ì†µÌ±¶Ì†µÌ±¶,Ì†µÌ±ßÌ†µÌ±ß,Ì†µÌ±ûÌ†µÌ±û) in noisy (orange) and non-noisy 
                     Figure 7. PDF distributions of the estimated parameters (x, y, z, q) in noisy (orange) and non-noisy
                     (grey) applications for 19 degrees wind direction scenarios for S1 (a), S2 (b), and S3 (c) sources. The 
                     (grey) applications for 19 degrees wind direction scenarios for S1 (a), S2 (b), and S3 (c) sources. The
                     averaged value of noise (red line) and non-noise (blue line) data cases are illustrated. The values of 
                     averagedvalueofnoise(redline)andnon-noise(blueline)datacasesareillustrated. Thevaluesof
                     true source parameters are depicted with a green line. 
                     true source parameters are depicted with a green line.
                        In the S1 scenario (Figure 7a), the average values for the Ì†µÌ±•Ì†µÌ±• and Ì†µÌ±¶Ì†µÌ±¶ coordinates show 
                        In the S1 scenario (Figure 7a), the average values for the x and y coordinates show
                     that the non-noisy case provides a better solution than the noisy case, and the non-noisy 
                     that the non-noisy case provides a better solution than the noisy case, and the non-noisy
                     estimation for the Ì†µÌ±ßÌ†µÌ±ß  coordinate is slightly more accurate. In the S2 scenario (Figure 7b), 
                     estimation for the z coordinate is slightly more accurate. In the S2 scenario (Figure 7b), both
                     both noisy and non-noisy data yield very good estimates for the Ì†µÌ±•Ì†µÌ±• and Ì†µÌ±¶Ì†µÌ±¶ coordinates, 
                     noisy and non-noisy data yield very good estimates for the x and y coordinates, closely
                     closely matching the true source values, but the Ì†µÌ±ßÌ†µÌ±ß coordinate shows a higher bias in the 
                     matchingthetruesourcevalues,butthe z coordinate shows a higher bias in the noisy case.
                     noisy case. For the S3 scenario (Figure 7c), the non-noisy data provide more accurate 
                     For the S3 scenario (Figure 7c), the non-noisy data provide more accurate estimates for the
                     estimates for the Ì†µÌ±•Ì†µÌ±•  and  Ì†µÌ±ßÌ†µÌ±ß  parameters, while the noisy data yield a more accurate y value. 
                      x and z parameters, while the noisy data yield a more accurate y value. The release rate
                     The release rate in non-noisy applications matches the true values across all scenarios, 
                     in non-noisy applications matches the true values across all scenarios, whereas there is a
                     whereas there is a signiÔ¨Åcant discrepancy in the noisy data estimations, particularly in the 
                     significant discrepancy in the noisy data estimations, particularly in the S2 and S3 scenarios.
                     S2 and S3 scenarios. 
                        In Figure 8, the algorithm‚Äôs estimations for the three independent emission scenarios
                        In Figure 8, the algorithm‚Äôs estimations for the three independent emission scenarios 
                     under 50-degree wind direction conditions are illustrated. The noisy dataset shows a
                     under 50-degree wind direction conditions are illustrated. The noisy dataset shows a 
      
     Atmosphere 2024, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW                        13  of  20 
      
     Atmosphere 2024, 15, 871                                       13of19
                     broader  distribution  across  many  parameters  compared  to  the  narrower  histograms 
                     observed in the non-noisy data. Across all emission cases, particularly in S1 (Figure 8a), 
                     broader distribution across many parameters compared to the narrower histograms ob-
                     the average values of the distributions suggest that the non-noisy applications achieve 
                     served in the non-noisy data. Across all emission cases, particularly in S1 (Figure 8a), the
                     higher accuracy for horizontal location coordinates (Ì†µÌ±•Ì†µÌ±•, Ì†µÌ±¶Ì†µÌ±¶). Additionally, the noisy data 
                     average values of the distributions suggest that the non-noisy applications achieve higher
                     provide predictions comparable to the non-noisy cases, especially in S2 (Figure 8b). In 
                     accuracy for horizontal location coordinates (x, y). Additionally, the noisy data provide
                     terms of vertical positioning, the estimated Ì†µÌ±ßÌ†µÌ±ß coordinate values from the non-noisy data 
                     predictions comparable to the non-noisy cases, especially in S2 (Figure 8b). In terms of
                     consistently demonstrate higher algorithmic performance compared to the noisy data. As 
                     vertical positioning, the estimated z coordinate values from the non-noisy data consistently
                     in the 19 degrees case, far better estimations are observed in S1 compared to S2 and S3 
                     demonstratehigheralgorithmic performance comparedtothenoisydata. Asinthe19de-
                     (Figure 8c). Regarding the release rate, both the S1 and S2 scenarios demonstrate high-
                     grees case, far better estimations are observed in S1 compared to S2 and S3 (Figure 8c).
                     quality solutions for the non-noisy data application, while the least accuracy is observed 
                     Regardingthereleaserate, both the S1 and S2 scenarios demonstrate high-quality solutions
                     in the S3 case. 
                     for the non-noisy data application, while the least accuracy is observed in the S3 case.
                                                                       
                     (a)                             (b) 
                                                       
                                     (c) 
                     Figure 8. PDF distributions of the estimated parameters (Ì†µÌ±•Ì†µÌ±•,Ì†µÌ±¶Ì†µÌ±¶,Ì†µÌ±ßÌ†µÌ±ß,Ì†µÌ±ûÌ†µÌ±û) in noisy (orange) and non-noisy 
                     Figure 8. PDF distributions of the estimated parameters (x, y, z, q) in noisy (orange) and non-noisy
                     (grey) applications for 50 degrees wind direction scenarios for S1 (a), S2 (b), and S3 (c) sources. The 
                     (grey) applications for 50 degrees wind direction scenarios for S1 (a), S2 (b), and S3 (c) sources. The
                     averaged value of noise (red line) and non-noise (blue line) data cases are illustrated. The values of 
                     averagedvalueofnoise(redline)andnon-noise(blueline)datacasesareillustrated. Thevaluesof
                     true source parameters are depicted with a green line. 
                     true source parameters are depicted with a green line.
      
         Atmosphere 2024, 15, 871                                                                                               14of19
                                              Theresults displayed in Figures 7 and 8 provide a visualization of the current STE
                                        methodologyoutcomesinalltheinvestigatedcases. However,itisimportanttoquantify
                                        these outcomes to evaluate the accuracy of the applied algorithms. For this purpose, the
                                        quantities of horizontal distance RH (Equation (17)), vertical distance RV (Equation (18)),
                                        andthereleaserateratio ‚àÜq (Equation (19)) between the true (xt,yt,zt,qt) and the mean
                                        values of the estimated (xe,ye,ze,qe) distributions are calculated:
                                                                        RH =q(xe‚àíxt)2+(ye‚àíyt)2                                     (17)
                                                                                RV =|ze‚àízt|                                        (18)
                                                                          ‚àÜq = max[(qe/qt),(qt/qe)]                                (19)
                                              Thetarget values for the distances RH and RV are equal to zero, and for the release
                                        rate ratio is unity (‚àÜq = 1).
                                              Table 1 presents the calculated horizontal and vertical distances, as well as the release
                                        rate ratio between the true and averaged estimated sources for the examined scenarios.
                                        Comparingthenoisyandnon-noisydatacases,itisobservedthatinmostinstances,the
                                        non-noisy data application yields solutions closest to the target values of RH, RV, and ‚àÜq.
                                        This outcome is anticipated, since the use of directly simulated concentrations from the
                                        forwardmodelassyntheticmeasurements,withoutaddinganynoise,suggestsanalmost
                                        ideal model. However,itisnoteworthythatthereareseveralinstanceswherethenoisydata
                                        cases provide solutions comparable to the non-noisy ones. Specifically, for the horizontal
                                        distance, there are three cases (S2 and S3 for 19 degrees, and S2 for 50 degrees) where
                                        the estimated location for the noisy data is close to the corresponding estimations of the
                                        non-noisy data. The vertical distance values indicate that using non-noisy data generally
                                        results in estimated positions closer to the true height compared to using noisy data across
                                        all cases, except for S1 in the 19-degree scenario. Regarding the release rate ratio values,
                                        nearly perfect predictions are observed for the release rate in all non-noisy cases, except for
                                        S3inthe50-degreescenario. Additionally, satisfactory accuracy is also achieved with the
                                        useofnoisysyntheticmeasurementdata.
                                        Table1. Horizontal distance, vertical distance, and release rate ratio between the true and averaged
                                        estimated sources‚Äô parameters for noisy and non-noisy data cases in each wind direction and source
                                        location scenario.
              Wind           Source                  R (m)                          R (m)                           ‚àÜq(-)
            Direction                                 H                               V
                                           Non-Noisy         Noisy        Non-Noisy          Noisy        Non-Noisy         Noisy
                                S1            39.37           82.65           5.85            5.55           1.00            1.08
            19degrees           S2            22.70           36.90          12.66           21.50           1.04            1.42
                                S3            91.06          109.21          24.44           31.59           1.03            2.15
                                S1            5.19            80.94           2.88            6.11           1.04            1.07
            50degrees           S2            36.44           59.56           5.22           18.26           1.03            1.16
                                S3           109.15          157.92          28.01           57.53           1.46            2.20
                                              Toenhancecomprehensionofthecalculateddistanceswithinthespecificgeometry,it
                                        is useful to compare the calculated values with a characteristic length of the computational
                                        domain‚Äôs geometry. Therefore, the maximum building height H                 can be used as a
                                                                                                                max
                                        reference length against the horizontal and vertical distances.
                                              ThevaluesofRH indicatethat,fornon-noisymeasurements,theapplicationsofS1and
                                        S2inbothwinddirectionsprovideasolutionwheretheestimatedsourcehasahorizontal
                                        distance less than H      . In contrast, for the S3 case, the calculated R  exceeds H      . As
                                                              max                                                 H            max
                                        detailed in Section 3.1, in the two wind conditions examined, the S1 and S2 scenarios show
                                        a higher number of sensors (10¬±13) detecting concentrations above the threshold value
        Atmosphere 2024, 15, 871                                                                                15of19
                                   comparedtoS3,whereonlythree(inthe19-degreecase)andfour(inthe50-degreecase)
                                   observations surpass the threshold. From this perspective, it is clear that a better solution
                                   for horizontal distance is achieved when the pollutant plume influences more sensors in
                                   the measurementnetwork. Thisobservationappliessimilarly to cases involving noisy data,
                                   where R values are nearly equal to or lower than H    in the S1 and S2 scenarios, but
                                           H                                          max
                                   higher in the S3 scenarios.
                                        By examining the vertical distances, it is observed that, in all cases, the calculated
                                   values are smaller compared to H    , indicating satisfactory accuracy. For each set of
                                                                    max
                                   synthetic data and wind directions separately, it is noted that the lowest RV are shown
                                   in the S1 cases. This could be attributed to the source location, as depicted in Figure 3,
                                   wheretheS1positionissituatedinanopenareaoutsidethecomplexbuildinggeometries,
                                   unlike S2 and S3, which are located in narrow urban streets. Furthermore, the calculated
                                    RV valuesappeartobeinfluencedbythenumberofmeasurementsexceedingthethreshold
                                   concentration, as noted for RH.
                                        Therelease rate ratio values demonstrate that, in the ideal model (non-noisy data),
                                   whenasignificantnumberofsensorsdetectaconcentrationabovethethreshold,therelease
                                   rate estimation closely matches the true emission rate of the sources. The ‚àÜq values for
                                   non-noisy S3 in the 50-degree wind direction scenario suggest that reducing the number of
                                   observationssurpassingthethresholdvaluecouldaffectthediscrepancybetweenestimated
                                   andtruereleaserates. ForthenoisydatacasesofS1andS2,although‚àÜqishighercompared
                                   to non-noisy data, it remains close to unity, which is the target. However, the results for
                                   S3indicate a reduced accuracy in noisy data applications when fewer sensors detect the
                                   plume. Overall, ‚àÜq outcomes demonstrate an acceptable performance, as the estimated
                                   release rate values are consistently within the same order of magnitude and close to the
                                   true values across all scenarios.
                                   4. Discussion
                                        ThefindingsdemonstratethattheappliedSTEmethodology,basedonCFDnumerical
                                   simulations, effectively predicts both source locations and release rates within the complex
                                   geometryofarealurbanareaofaEuropeancityinthemajorityofcases. Figures7and8
                                   showthatinalmostalltheappliedscenarios,thetruevalueofthetargetvariable(x, y, z, q)
                                   is within the estimated PDF histogram and lies near the average PDF value. The evaluation
                                   quantities indicate that, for all scenarios, the average value of the PDF distribution for the
                                   source location is within a horizontal distance from the true source that is less than, or very
                                   close to, twice the maximum building height. The corresponding distance in the vertical
                                   level is consistently less than the maximum building height across all scenarios. The release
                                   rate ratio results demonstrate high accuracy in most cases.
                                        The main limitation of this work is the lack of actual measurements in the area of
                                   interest. To assess the validity of the Metropolis¬±Hastings MCMC algorithm in a real-world
                                   geometry case, the algorithm is tested using synthetic measurement datasets generated
                                   directly by the forward model. These datasets are used both without noise and with added
                                   Gaussiannoisetosimulatethebiasesfrommeasurementandmodellinguncertainties.
                                        Generally, the estimated PDFs (Figures 7 and 8) and the evaluation quantities (Table 1)
                                   indicate a higher performance when applying the algorithm to synthetic data without
                                   addedGaussiannoise. Incertain scenarios (S1 and S2 for the 50-degree wind direction),
                                   the PDF histograms illustrate wider distributions when noise is introduced, increasing
                                   the uncertainty in the source parameter estimations. The improved performance with
                                   non-noisy datasets aligns with previous studies [30] and was anticipated, as synthetic
                                   observations were derived directly from the forward dispersion model, approaching nearly
                                   ideal conditions for the application.
                                        Bayesian-based algorithms can include an estimation of the measurement and
                                   modelling bias by adding the variable œÉ in the calculations of the posterior probability
                                                                         i       2
                                   (Equation (12)). In this work, we assume that œÉ = a √ó Di, where a is a constant value
                                                                                i
                                   across all sensors, ranging from 0.01 to 0.05 in non-noisy scenarios and from 0.05 to 0.2 in
     Atmosphere 2024, 15, 871                                       16of19
                     noisy cases. The higher accuracy in non-noisy application may be due to the fact that the
                     observations are directly calculated from the forward model, including only uncertainties
                     fromtheadjointequations,contributing to a small total error that is likely similar in each
                     sensor. Conversely, Gaussian noise introduces varying levels of biases in each sensor
                     stochastically. From this point of view, future work should investigate techniques capable
                     of predicting the error in each sensor separately, potentially enhancing the algorithm‚Äôs
                     accuracy in such cases.
                        Thealgorithm‚Äôsvalidity is demonstrated by achieving acceptable estimations using
                     noisy observation datasets in most scenarios. It is noteworthy that, in certain release
                     scenarios, the noisy observation cases show a performance similar to or slightly better than
                     the non-noisy ones, as shown in Table 1. For example, in the S2 and S3 scenarios at a wind
                     direction of 19 degrees, and in the S2 scenario at 50 degrees, the noisy dataset estimations
                     are close to the non-noisy ones at the horizontal level. Additionally, in the S1 scenario at
                     19 degrees, the vertical distance between the estimated and true sources is slightly lower in
                     the noisy application than in the non-noisy one. Similar release rate estimations are also
                     achieved for both the noisy and non-noisy datasets in the S1 scenario at 19 degrees, and in
                     the S1 and S2 scenarios at 50 degrees.
                        TheoutcomesshowthattheperformanceoftheSTEalgorithmisstronglyassociated
                     withthenumberofsensorsdetectingconcentrationsabovethethresholdvalue. Thisrela-
                     tionshipisparticularlypronouncedinthenon-noisycases,wheretheaccuracyoftheresults
                     declineswhenonlythreeorfourobservationssurpassthethreshold,asnotedintheS3cases
                     for both release scenarios. Specifically, in Table 1, it is observed that both the horizontal
                     andvertical distances increase in the S3 cases compared to the corresponding values for
                     the S1 and S2 scenarios. A lower accuracy is observed for the release rate ratio only in
                     the S3 case for the 50-degree wind direction. A similar trend is observed in some noisy
                     data applications, although additional uncertainties can affect the method‚Äôs performance in
                     these cases. The results in the Efthimiou et al. study [15] show that a better solution can
                     beachievedevenbyusinganetworkwithalowernumberofsensorsindifferentsource
                     location cases within the same spatial domain under the same meteorological conditions.
                     In our work, it is observed that the accuracy of the estimations is strongly correlated with
                     the numberofsensorsdetectingaconcentrationaboveaspecifiedthreshold.
                        The characteristics of the area surrounding the source significantly influence the
                     accuracy of vertical location estimates. Sources located at ground level in open spaces yield
                     better predictions for the z coordinate compared to those placed near the ground in street
                     canyons or among obstacles. These findings are consistent with the work of Efthimiou
                     et al. [15], where the vertical distance between the estimated and true values for a source
                     located in an open space was lower or only slightly higher, compared to scenarios where
                     the sources were within street canyons. At the same time, the open space source scenario
                     providedsignificantly less accurate estimations for the horizontal location and release rate.
                        Twoimportant assumptions of the current study are that the pollutant is treated a
                     non-reactive passive substance and that neutral stability atmospheric conditions are as-
                     sumed,neglectingthermaleffects. These assumptions have been successfully adopted in
                     previous STE [18,20] and air quality [23,28] CFD applications, providing accurate results.
                     Incorporating atmospheric chemistry and thermal effects into CFD models increases both
                     the complexity and the computational requirements. In emergency cases involving haz-
                     ardous airborne releases, rapid response times are crucial for protecting the population.
                     Therefore, future research should focus on STE applications aimed at improving model
                     accuracy by integrating chemical and thermal processes while managing computational
                     demands. Toexpediteresponsetimes,futureworkshouldexploretheuseofprecalculated
                     windandconcentrationfieldswithintheareaofinterest.
                     5. Conclusions
                        The goal of this work is to estimate the location and release rate of an unknown
                     source within the complex geometry of the Augsburg city center. To achieve this, the
       Atmosphere 2024, 15, 871                                                                       17of19
                                Metropolis¬±Hastings MCMCalgorithmisemployedtogenerateprobabilitydistribution
                                functions (PDFs) for the source parameters, based on pollutant concentration measure-
                                mentsandconcentrationscalculatedbyaCFDmodel. Toaddresstheabsenceofavailable
                                measurements,theforwarddispersionmodelisutilizedtogenerateconcentrationsthatare
                                usedassyntheticobservations in a 20-sensor measurement network. Three different source
                                locations are investigated under two distinct wind direction conditions. The algorithm‚Äôs
                                performanceinestimatingthesourceparametersisassessedinallscenariosbyusingthe
                                synthetic observations, both as directly calculated by the forward model and with added
                                Gaussiannoise.
                                    Overall, the results highlight that the applied methodology is capable of providing
                                accurate solutions for identifying the source location and quantifying the release rate in an
                                urban-scale environment. Moreover, the methodology is successfully implemented in a
                                real-world urban geometry, such as Augsburg‚Äôs city center. The findings indicate higher
                                accuracyintheapplicationsofnon-noisysyntheticobservations,whileacceptablesolutions
                                are achieved from the algorithm in Gaussian-noisy synthetic measurement cases. This
                                suggests the methodology‚Äôs potential use as a supporting tool in emergency situations,
                                providingrelevantauthoritieswithvaluableinformationonunknownsourcecharacteristics.
                                Future work should focus on evaluating the current methodology against real observation
                                datasets to validate its effectiveness. Furthermore, the use of precomputed fields from
                                numericalsimulationsshouldbeexploredtoreducethehighcomputationaldemandsof
                                CFDmodels,asrapidresponsetimeiscrucialinemergencysituations.
                                AuthorContributions: Conceptualization, P.G. and N.M.; methodology, P.G. and N.M.; software,
                                P.G. and G.I.; validation, P.G., N.M. and G.T.; formal analysis, P.G.; investigation, P.G. and N.M.;
                                resources, N.M. and C.V.; data curation, P.G.; writing√êoriginal draft preparation, P.G. and G.I.;
                                writing√êreviewandediting,P.G.,N.M.,G.T.,G.I.andC.V.;visualization,P.G.; supervision, N.M.;
                                project administration, N.M.; funding acquisition, N.M. All authors have read and agreed to the
                                published version of the manuscript.
                                Funding: This workis part of the first author‚Äôs doctoral dissertation research, which is funded by
                                the Helmholtz Association of German Research Centres through a Graduate School of the Centre
                                for Climate and Environment (GRACE)attheKarlsruheInstituteofTechnology(KIT)scholarship
                                under funding number 51. Furthermore, this work is a part of the program Helmholtz European
                                Partnership for Technological Advancement (HEPTA).
                                Institutional Review Board Statement: Not applicable.
                                InformedConsentStatement: Notapplicable.
                                DataAvailability Statement: Data are contained within the article.
                                Acknowledgments: TheauthorsacknowledgesupportbythestateofBaden-W√ºrttembergthrough
                                                  ¬Æ
                                bwHPC.OPENFOAM isaregisteredtrademarkofOpenCFDLimited,produceranddistributor
                                of the OpenFOAM software v2106 via www.openfoam.com (accessed on 22 July 2024). The first
                                authoracknowledgesthesupportofPaulTremperandTillRiedelfromtheKarlsruheInstitutefor
                                Technology(KIT)duringhisresearchstayatKIT.
                                Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.
       References
       1.  Vlachokostas, C.; Achillas, C.; Slini, T.; Moussiopoulos, N.; Banias, G.; Dimitrakis, I. Willingness to Pay for Reducing the Risk of
           PrematureMortalityAttributed to Air Pollution: A Contingent Valuation Study for Greece. Atmos. Pollut. Res. 2011, 2, 275¬±282.
           [CrossRef]
       2.  Vlachokostas, C.; Banias, G.; Athanasiadis, A.; Achillas, C.; Akylas, V.; Moussiopoulos, N. Cense: A Tool to Assess Combined
           ExposuretoEnvironmentalHealthStressorsinUrbanAreas. Environ. Int. 2014, 63, 1¬±10. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
       3.  Anspaugh,L.R.;Catlin, R.J.; Goldman, M. The Global Impact of the Chernobyl Reactor Accident. Science 1988, 242, 1513¬±1519.
           [CrossRef] [PubMed]
       4.  Ohtsuru,A.;Tanigawa,K.;Kumagai,A.;Niwa,O.;Takamura,N.;Midorikawa,S.;Nollet,K.;Yamashita,S.;Ohto,H.;Chhem,
           R.K.; et al. Nuclear Disasters and Health: Lessons Learned, Challenges, and Proposals. Lancet 2015, 386, 489¬±497. [CrossRef]
           [PubMed]
           Atmosphere 2024, 15, 871                                                                                                                            18of19
           5.     Chouhan,T.R.TheUnfoldingofBhopalDisaster. J.LossPrev. Process Ind. 2005, 18, 205¬±208. [CrossRef]
           6.     Pocchiari, F.; Silano, V.; Zampieri, A. Human Health Effects from Accidental Release of Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-Dioxin (tcdd) at
                  Seveso, italy. Ann. N. Y. Acad. Sci. 1979, 320, 311¬±320. [PubMed]
           7.     Okumura,T.;Takasu,N.;Ishimatsu,S.; Miyanoki, S.; Mitsuhashi, A.; Kumada, K.; Tanaka, K.; Hinohara, S. Report on 640 Victims
                  of the Tokyo Subway Sarin Attack. Ann. Emerg. Med. 1996, 28, 129¬±135. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
           8.     Pudykiewicz, J.A. Application of Adjoint Tracer Transport Equations for Evaluating Source Parameters. Atmos. Environ. 1998, 32,
                  3039¬±3050. [CrossRef]
           9.     Allen, C.T.; Young, G.S.; Haupt, S.E. Improving Pollutant Source Characterization by Better Estimating Wind Direction with a
                  Genetic Algorithm. Atmos. Environ. 2007, 41, 2283¬±2289. [CrossRef]
           10.    Liu, Y.; Jiang, Y.; Zhang, X.; Pan, Y.; Qi, Y. Combined Grey Wolf Optimizer Algorithm and Corrected Gaussian Diffusion Model in
                  Source TermEstimation. Processes 2022, 10, 1238. [CrossRef]
           11.    Li, H.; Zhang, J.; Yi, J. Computational Source Term Estimation of the Gaussian Puff Dispersion. Soft Comput. 2019, 23, 59¬±75.
                  [CrossRef]
           12.    Park, M.; Ladosz, P.; Oh, H. Source Term Estimation Using Deep Reinforcement Learning With Gaussian Mixture Model Feature
                  Extraction for Mobile Sensors. IEEE Robot. Autom. Lett. 2022, 7, 8323¬±8330. [CrossRef]
           13.    Wade,D.;Senocak,I.Stochastic Reconstruction of Multiple Source Atmospheric Contaminant Dispersion Events. Atmos. Environ.
                  2013, 74, 45¬±51. [CrossRef]
           14.    Efthimiou, G.C.; Kovalets, I.V.; Venetsanos, A.; Andronopoulos, S.; Argyropoulos, C.D.; Kakosimos, K. An Optimized In-
                 verse Modelling Method for Determining the Location and Strength of a Point Source Releasing Airborne Material in Urban
                  Environment. Atmos. Environ. 2017, 170, 118¬±129. [CrossRef]
           15.    Efthimiou, G.C.; Kovalets, I.V.; Argyropoulos, C.D.; Venetsanos, A.; Andronopoulos, S.; Kakosimos, K.E. Evaluation of an Inverse
                  ModellingMethodologyforthePredictionofaStationaryPointPollutantSourceinComplexUrbanEnvironments. Build. Environ.
                  2018, 143, 107¬±119. [CrossRef]
           16.    Keats, A.; Yee, E.; Lien, F.-S. Bayesian Inference for Source Determination with Applications to a Complex Urban Environment.
                 Atmos. Environ. 2007, 41, 465¬±479. [CrossRef]
           17.    Kovalets, I.V.; Andronopoulos, S.; Venetsanos, A.G.; Bartzis, J.G. Identification of Strength and Location of Stationary Point Source
                  of Atmospheric Pollutant in Urban Conditions Using Computational Fluid Dynamics Model. Math. Comput. Simul. 2011, 82,
                  244¬±257. [CrossRef]
           18.    Xue, F.; Kikumoto, H.; Li, X.; Ooka, R. Bayesian Source Term Estimation of Atmospheric Releases in Urban Areas Using LES
                 Approach. J. Hazard. Mater. 2018, 349, 68¬±78. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
           19.    Xue, F.; Li, X.; Ooka, R.; Kikumoto, H.; Zhang, W. Turbulent Schmidt Number for Source Term Estimation Using Bayesian
                  Inference. Build. Environ. 2017, 125, 414¬±422. [CrossRef]
           20.    Jia, H.; Kikumoto, H. Source Term Estimation in Complex Urban Environments Based on Bayesian Inference and Unsteady
                 Adjoint Equations Simulated via Large Eddy Simulation. Build. Environ. 2021, 193, 107669. [CrossRef]
           21.    Rapkos,N.;Boikos,C.;Ioannidis, G.; Ntziachristos, L. Direct Deposition of Air Pollutants in the Wake of Container Vessels: The
                  MissingTermintheEnvironmentalImpactofShipping. Atmos. Pollut. Res. 2024, 15, 102013. [CrossRef]
           22.    Boikos, C.; Rapkos, N.; Ioannidis, G.; Oppo, S.; Armengaud, A.; Siamidis, P.; Tsegas, G.; Ntziachristos, L. Factors Affecting
                  Pedestrian-Level Ship Pollution in Port Areas: CFD in the Service of Policy-Making. Build. Environ. 2024, 258, 111594. [CrossRef]
           23.    Ioannidis, G.; Li, C.; Tremper, P.; Riedel, T.; Ntziachristos, L. Application of CFD Modelling for Pollutant Dispersion at an Urban
                 Traffic Hotspot. Atmosphere 2024, 15, 113. [CrossRef]
           24.    Rivas, E.; Santiago, J.L.; Lech√≥n, Y.; Mart√≠n, F.; Ari√±o, A.; Pons, J.J.; Santamar√≠a, J.M. CFD Modelling of Air Quality in Pamplona
                  City (Spain): Assessment, Stations Spatial Representativeness and Health Impacts Valuation. Sci. Total Environ. 2019, 649,
                 1362¬±1380. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
           25.    Rafael, S.; Vicente, B.; Rodrigues, V.; Miranda, A.I.; Borrego, C.; Lopes, M. Impacts of Green Infrastructures on Aerodynamic Flow
                  andAirQualityinPorto‚ÄôsUrbanArea. Atmos. Environ. 2018, 190, 317¬±330. [CrossRef]
           26.    Parra, M.A.; Santiago, J.L.; Mart√≠n, F.; Martilli, A.; Santamar√≠a, J.M. A Methodology to Urban Air Quality Assessment during
                  LargeTimePeriodsofWinterUsingComputationalFluidDynamicModels. Atmos. Environ. 2010,44,2089¬±2097. [CrossRef]
           27.    Santiago, J.L.; Borge, R.; Martin, F.; de la Paz, D.; Martilli, A.; Lumbreras, J.; Sanchez, B. Evaluation of a CFD-Based Approach to
                  Estimate Pollutant Distribution within a Real Urban Canopy by Means of Passive Samplers. Sci. Total Environ. 2017, 576, 46¬±58.
                  [CrossRef] [PubMed]
           28.    Mart√≠n, F.; Janssen, S.; Rodrigues, V.; Sousa, J.; Santiago, J.L.; Rivas, E.; Stocker, J.; Jackson, R.; Russo, F.; Villani, M.G.; et al. Using
                  Dispersion Models at Microscale to Assess Long-Term Air Pollution in Urban Hot Spots: A FAIRMODE Joint Intercomparison
                  Exercise for a Case Study in Antwerp. Sci. Total Environ. 2024, 925, 171761. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
           29.    Haupt, S.E.; Young, G.S.; Allen, C.T. Validation of a Receptor¬±Dispersion Model Coupled with a Genetic Algorithm Using
                  Synthetic Data. J. Appl. Meteorol. Clim. 2006, 45, 476¬±490. [CrossRef]
           30.    Allen, C.T.; Haupt, S.E.; Young, G.S. Source Characterization with a Genetic Algorithm¬±Coupled Dispersion¬±Backward Model
                  Incorporating SCIPUFF. J. Appl. Meteorol. Clim. 2007, 46, 273¬±287. [CrossRef]
          Atmosphere 2024, 15, 871                                                                                                              19of19
          31.   Ma, D.; Tan, W.; Zhang, Z.; Hu, J. Parameter Identification for Continuous Point Emission Source Based on Tikhonov Regu-
                larization Method Coupled with Particle Swarm Optimization Algorithm. J. Hazard. Mater. 2017, 325, 239¬±250. [CrossRef]
                [PubMed]
          32.   Thomson,L.C.;Hirst, B.; Gibson, G.; Gillespie, S.; Jonathan, P.; Skeldon, K.D.; Padgett, M.J. An Improved Algorithm for Locating
                a Gas Source Using Inverse Methods. Atmos. Environ. 2007, 41, 1128¬±1134. [CrossRef]
          33.   Wang,Y.; Chen, B.; Zhu, Z.; Wang, R.; Chen, F.; Zhao, Y.; Zhang, L. A Hybrid Strategy on Combining Different Optimization
                AlgorithmsforHazardousGasSourceTermEstimationinFieldCases. ProcessSaf. Environ. Prot. 2020, 138, 27¬±38. [CrossRef]
          34.   Ickowicz, A.; Septier, F.; Armand, P.; Delignon, Y. Adaptive Bayesian Algorithms for the Estimation of Source Term in A Complex
                AtmosphericRelease. In Proceedings of the 15th International Conference on Harmonisation within Atmospheric Dispersion
                ModellingforRegulatoryPurposes,Madrid,Spain,6¬±9May2013.
          35.   Jia, H.; Kikumoto, H. Line Source Estimation of Environmental Pollutants Using Super-Gaussian Geometry Model and Bayesian
                Inference. Environ. Res. 2021, 194, 110706. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
          36.   Lane, R.O.; Briers, M.; Copsey, K. Approximate Bayesian Computation for Source Term Estimation. In Proceedings of the IMA
                ConferenceonMathematicsinDefenceCodyTechnologyPark,Farnborough,Hampshire,UK,19November2009.
          37.   Wang,Y.;Huang,H.;Huang,L.;Ristic,B.EvaluationofBayesianSourceEstimationMethodswithPrairieGrassObservations
                andGaussianPlumeModel: AComparisonofLikelihoodFunctionsandDistanceMeasures. Atmos. Environ. 2017,152,519¬±530.
                [CrossRef]
          38.   Yee, E.; Hoffman, I.; Ungar, K. Bayesian Inference for Source Reconstruction: A Real-World Application. Int. Sch. Res. Not. 2014,
                2014, 507634. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
          39.   Bieringer, P.E.; Young, G.S.; Rodriguez, L.M.; Annunzio, A.J.; Vandenberghe, F.; Haupt, S.E. Paradigms and Commonalities in
                AtmosphericSourceTermEstimationMethods. Atmos. Environ. 2017,156,102¬±112. [CrossRef]
          40.   ShankarRao,K.SourceEstimationMethodsforAtmosphericDispersion. Atmos. Environ. 2007,41,6964¬±6973. [CrossRef]
          41.   Hutchinson,M.;Oh,H.;Chen,W.H.AReviewofSourceTermEstimationMethodsforAtmosphericDispersionEventsUsing
                Static or Mobile Sensors. Inf. Fusion 2017, 36, 130¬±148. [CrossRef]
          42.   Gilks, W.R.; Richardson, S.; Spiegelhalter, D. Markov Chain Monte Carlo in Practice; CRC Press: Boca Raton, FL, USA, 1995.
          43.   Metropolis, N.; Rosenbluth, A.W.; Rosenbluth, M.N.; Teller, A.H.; Teller, E. Equation of State Calculations by Fast Computing
                Machines. J. Chem. Phys. 1953, 21, 1087¬±1092. [CrossRef]
          44.   Carlin, B.P.; Louis, T.A. Bayes and Empirical Bayes Methods for Data Analysis. Stat. Comput. 1997, 7, 153¬±154. [CrossRef]
          45.   Haklay, M.; Weber, P. Openstreetmap: User-Generated Street Maps. IEEE Pervasive Comput. 2008, 7, 12¬±18. [CrossRef]
          46.   Mooney,P.; Corcoran, P.; Winstanley, A.C. Towards Quality Metrics for OpenStreetMap. In Proceedings of the 18th SIGSPATIAL
                International Conference on Advances in Geographic Information Systems, San Jose, CA, USA, 3¬±5 November 2010; pp. 514¬±517.
          47.   Haklay, M. HowGoodIsVolunteeredGeographicalInformation? AComparativeStudyofOpenStreetMapandOrdnanceSurvey
                Datasets. Environ. Plan. B Plan. Des. 2010, 37, 682¬±703. [CrossRef]
          48.   Neis, P.; Zielstra, D.; Zipf, A. The Street Network Evolution of Crowdsourced Maps: OpenStreetMap in Germany 2007¬±2011.
                Future Internet 2011, 4, 1¬±21. [CrossRef]
          49.   Antoniou,A.;Ioannidis, G.; Ntziachristos, L. Realistic Simulation of Air Pollution in an Urban Area to Promote Environmental
                Policies. Environ. Model. Softw. 2024, 172, 105918. [CrossRef]
          50.   Blocken, B. Computational Fluid Dynamics for Urban Physics: Importance, Scales, Possibilities, Limitations and Ten Tips and
                Tricks towards Accurate and Reliable Simulations. Build. Environ. 2015, 91, 219¬±245. [CrossRef]
          51.   Ariff, M.; Salim, S.M.; Cheah, S.C. Wall Y+ Approach for Dealing with Turbulent Flows over a Surface Mounted Cube: Part
                2√êHighReynoldsNumber. InProceedingsoftheSeventhInternationalConferenceonCFDintheMineralandProcessIndustries,
                Melbourne,Australia, 9¬±11 December 2009.
          52.   Henry, F.; Bonifacio, R.G.M.; Glasgow, L.A. Numerical Simulation of Transport of Particles Emitted from Ground-Level Area
                Source Using AermodandCFD.Eng. Appl. Comput. Fluid. Mech. 2014, 8, 488¬±502. [CrossRef]
          53.   Tominaga,Y.;Stathopoulos, T. Turbulent Schmidt Numbers for CFD Analysis with Various Types of Flowfield. Atmos. Environ.
                2007, 41, 8091¬±8099. [CrossRef]
          54.   Wang, X.; McNamara, K.F. Evaluation of CFD Simulation Using RANS Turbulence Models for Building Effects on Pollutant
                Dispersion. Environ. Fluid Mech. 2006, 6, 181¬±202. [CrossRef]
          55.   Sanchez,B.; Santiago, J.L.; Martilli, A.; Martin, F.; Borge, R.; Quaassdorff, C.; de la Paz, D. Modelling NOX Concentrations through
                CFD-RANSinanUrbanHot-SpotUsingHighResolutionTrafficEmissionsandMeteorologyfromaMesoscaleModel. Atmos.
                Environ. 2017, 163, 155¬±165. [CrossRef]
          56.   Richards, P.J.; Hoxey, R.P. Appropriate Boundary Conditions for Computational Wind Engineering Models Using the K-Œµ
                Turbulence Model. Comput. Wind Eng. 1993, 1, 145¬±153. [CrossRef]
          Disclaimer/Publisher‚Äôs Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individual
          author(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to
          people or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content.
